Annual meetings of the Watch Tower
Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania
have been held for many years
—in fact, since January 1885.
They have been held in different states
in the United States
and, in 1983, in Britain.
This year, 2020, the corporate meeting
is being held by videoconference.
The spiritual program has been recorded
for the benefit of the brothers
all over the earth.
This is a historic annual meeting.
In the past, we have had
some historic annual meetings.
For example,
at the annual meeting
held on October 2, 1944, in Pittsburgh,
the members of the Pennsylvania corporation
adopted six resolutions amending its charter.
The charter had provided
that voting shares be issued
to contributors of funds
to the Society’s work,
but the third amendment
eliminated that provision.
Thereafter, directors of the Society
were to be voted into office
by individuals
who were fully devoted to Jehovah,
irrespective of the amount of money
that they contributed
to advance the Kingdom work.
After the historic annual meeting in 1944,
a vital question remained.
Since the Governing Body
was then closely identified
with the Pennsylvania corporation’s
seven-member board of directors,
did this mean that the Governing Body
could never be made up
of more than seven anointed Christians?
Moreover, since the directors
are elected
by the members of the corporation,
were the corporation members electing
members of the Governing Body
at the annual meeting each year?
Are the directors and officers
of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
and the members of the Governing Body
one and the same, or are they different?
These questions were answered years later.
They were answered
at the annual meeting held
on October 1, 1971
—another historic annual meeting.
On that occasion, one of the speakers
pointed out
that the governing body preceded
the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
of Pennsylvania
by hundreds of years.
Now, despite some who opposed Jehovah
and the earthly part of his organization
and who claimed there was no governing body
in the first century
and hence saw no need
for a Governing Body today,
a governing body was formed
at Pentecost of 33 C.E.,
more than 18 centuries
before the Pennsylvania corporation
came into existence.
At first, the governing body
consisted of 12 apostles.
Its number was enlarged later,
for “the apostles and older men in Jerusalem”
were taking the lead.
Now notice what happened later
here in the Bible book of Acts
in chapter 15.
So other issues had been handled
by the 12 apostles,
but now with this circumcision issue
that came up among the congregations,
notice what we read here
in verse 2 of Acts 15:
“But after quite a bit of dissension
and disputing
“by Paul and Barnabas with them,
“it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas,
and some of the others
“to go up to the apostles
“and elders in Jerusalem
regarding this issue.”
So the issue was going to be settled
by the first-century governing body.
And now it’s larger than the apostles;
it included the elders and the apostles
in Jerusalem.
Now, what is the benefit
of following the direction
from the governing body in the first century
and, by extension, today?
Notice that at Acts 16:4, 5,
they’re carrying the decree there.
And it mentions:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them for observance
“the decrees that had been decided on
“by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.
“[Now notice.]
“Then, indeed, the congregations
“continued to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
There was a governing body.
They didn’t have a need for legal entities
to advance the Kingdom work
in the first century,
but they did indeed need a governing body.
As long as conditions in this world permit,
the Governing Body will make use
of legal entities.
If a legal entity is dissolved
by government decree,
the preaching work will still go on.
Even now, in lands
where restrictions are in effect
and no legal entities are used,
the Kingdom message is being proclaimed,
disciples are being made,
and theocracy’s increase continues.
In the midst of this pandemic,
the preaching continues.
Many experiences are happening globally.
Now, one I received and confirmed
from two elders serving at Warwick Bethel,
I think you’ll appreciate.
So much is going on
and so many nice experiences.
A health-care system that operates
dozens of hospitals across the United States,
and many of them were COVID hot spots,
wanted to publish a video interview
featuring two frontline health-care workers
in one of the hospitals.
Well, it happened that the two nurses
they chose for the interviews
were our brothers.
They were asked to supply
pictures of their families.
One of the pictures had been taken
before the pandemic
in front of a paradise scene
in one of our Assembly Halls.
Now, the woman coordinating
the video interviews
told the brother
that she recognized that scene.
So he asked her if she was a Witness.
She replied:
“No, but I studied with the Witnesses,
“and I know it’s the truth.
I can see how close we are to the end.”
The brother then told her
that she’d be happy to know
that the second nurse
whom she had interviewed the day before
was also a Witness.
Then the woman burst into tears.
She said it made sense that the two nurses
selected for this interview
would both be Witnesses.
“I can see it in your approach
and in the belief
in something bigger than this.”
And she said she planned
to resume her Bible study.
So we pray for this woman
and all the wonderful experiences happening
as the preaching goes on
during this pandemic.
So this is all happening
because Jehovah’s Witnesses
plant and water
and “God [keeps] making it grow.”
All glory goes to Jehovah.
At this meeting, as was pointed out last year
with the announcement
about the Ramapo project,
you will learn that the faithful slave
is not slowing down.
We have more work to do until Jehovah says
the preaching work is finished.
As we look to the future, we are confident
that Jehovah will care for the spiritual
and material needs of his people.
He and his Son, Jesus Christ,
will continue to provide
the heavenly direction and support needed
to complete the Kingdom preaching work.
We therefore beg Jehovah for his spirit
to finish the work he has given us.